Added PushModel documentation/tutorial (#86403)
Azure/azure-content: articles/azure-app-configuration/enable-dynamic-configuration-dotnet-core-push-refresh.md

1. Push Model: This uses [App Configuration events](./concept-app-configuration-event.md) to detect changes in configuration. Once App Configuration is set up to send key value change events to Azure Event Grid, the application can use these events to optimize the total number of requests needed to keep the configuration updated. Applications can choose to subscribe to these either directly from Event Grid, or though one of the [supported event handlers](../event-grid/event-handlers.md) such as a webhook, an Azure function or a Service Bus topic.

> This tutorial shows how you can implement dynamic configuration updates in your code using push refresh. It builds on the app introduced in the quickstarts. Before you continue, finish Tutorial: [Use dynamic configuration in a .NET Core app](./enable-dynamic-configuration-dotnet-core.md) first.

Reviewer: quickstarts -> tutorial.

Author: fixed

## Prerequisites

To do this tutorial, install the [.NET Core SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download).

> 

Reviewer: Why is everything deleted?

Author: I thought you wanted these lines removed:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/89044647/151019184-fd6675e3-93b6-440b-952b-67e5baad93d1.png)

Author: or is this just referencing the quickstarts-free-trial-note?

Reviewer: > or is this just referencing the quickstarts-free-trial-note?

yes

> 

Reviewer: Can you please help to remove line 29? Its content is duplicated from the "Push Model" description. The reason it listed for choosing Service Bus is actually misleading.

Author: removed

## Prerequisites

> * Install [.NET Core SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download).

Reviewer: Remove. If people did the quickstart, they have this already.

Author: removed

> * Quickstart: [Create a .NET Core app with App Configuration](./quickstart-dotnet-core-app.md)

Reviewer: Now that I read this doc again, I think we should put the tutorial below as the prereq instead. Not the quickstart because the quickstart doesn't talk about config refresh at all. Can you please make the same change for line 31?

Tutorial: \[Use dynamic configuration in a .NET Core app](./enable-dynamic-configuration-dotnet-core.md)

Author: So then remove the quickstart?

Reviewer: Change to the tutorial linked above.

Author: updated

* Nuget package `Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.AzureAppConfiguration` version 5.0.0 or later

> [!INCLUDE [quickstarts-free-trial-note](../../includes/quickstarts-free-trial-note.md)]

Reviewer: Can you remove this too? It's already part of the quickstart.

Reviewer: Not resolved

> [!NOTE]
> When subscribing for configuration changes, one or more filters can be used to reduce the number of events sent to your application. These can be configured either as [Event Grid subscription filters](../event-grid/event-filtering.md) or [Service Bus subscription filters](../service-bus-messaging/topic-filters.md). For example, a subscription filter can be used to only subscribe to events for changes in a key that starts with a specific string.

> ## Register event handler to reload data from App Configuration using a sync-token

Reviewer: Sync-token is an implementation detail. I don't think it adds any value by mentioning it in the title.

> [!NOTE]

> > Support for using synchronization tokens in push refresh workflow is available in .NET configuration provider version 5.0.0-preview (or later). 

Reviewer: Can we update the prereq section with the following instead?

- Quickstart: [Create a .NET Core app with App Configuration](./quickstart-dotnet-core-app.md)
- Nuget package `Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.AzureAppConfiguration` version 5.0.0 or later

(I left out -preview. When this doc goes out, we should have 5.0.0 released.)

Open *Program.cs* and update the file with the following code.

> ```csharp

Reviewer: Can you please clean up the usings? Since we don't parse the push notification anymore, I suppose some usings are not needed.

## Register event handler to reload data from App Configuration

> Ensuring that users get their most up to date configurations is nearly impossible as a configuration can change at any moment (even after a request is sent out). To ensure users get their most up to date configurations we integrate a `synchronization token`. This `Synchronization token` guarantees users receive all changes at least up to the point which the notification was triggered. There still is no guarantee that changes occuring after a push notification was triggered will be reflected in the response.

Reviewer: There is a similar discussion after the code snippet. This appears redundant. Suggest removing.

            }
        }

>          private static void RegisterRefreshEventHandler()

Reviewer: An incorrect one space indentation was added.

            string serviceBusTopic = Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable(ServiceBusTopicEnvVarName);
            string serviceBusSubscription = Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable(ServiceBusSubscriptionEnvVarName);
            SubscriptionClient serviceBusClient = new SubscriptionClient(serviceBusConnectionString, serviceBusTopic, serviceBusSubscription);
            serviceBusClient.RegisterMessageHandler(
                handler: (message, cancellationToken) =>
                {
                    EventGridEvent eventGridEvent = EventGridEvent.Parse(BinaryData.FromBytes(message.Body));

>                     eventGridEvent.TryCreatePushNotification(out PushNotification pushNotification);

Reviewer: It will be helpful to have some comments. It has two benefits
1. Help readers to understand the code
2. Attract readers' attention to what matters

Author: Good idea. I added comments

}
```

> Ensuring that users get their most up to date configurations is nearly impossible as a configuration can change at any moment (even after a request is sent out). The `ProcessPushNotification` method incorporates a synchronization token into the next request to the `App Configuration`. This `Synchronization token` guarantees users receive all changes at least up to the point which the notification was triggered. There still is no guarantee that changes occuring after a push notification was triggered will be reflected in the response.

Reviewer: This still talks too much about implementation details rather than explaining what the code does for the customer. I drafted something below and hope it makes sense to you.

----

The `ProcessPushNotification` method resets the cache expiration to a short random delay, so later calls to `RefreshAsync` or `TryRefreshAsync` will re-validate the cached values against App Configuration and update them as necessary. In this example, you register to monitor the key _TestApp:Settings:Message_ for change detection with a cache expiration time of one day, which means no requests to App Configuration will be made before a day has passed since the last check. By calling `ProcessPushNotification`, your application will send requests to App Configuration in the next few seconds. It will load new configuration values shortly after changes occur in App Configuration, but without polling for the changes all the time. In case of your application misses the change notification for any reason, it will still check for configuration changes once a day.

The short random delay for cache expiration is helpful if you have many instances of your application or microservices connecting to the same App Configuration store with the push model setup. Without it, all instances of your application could send requests to your App Configuration store simultaneously as soon as they receive a change notification, which could cause throttling to your store. This delay is a random number between 0 and a maximum of 30 seconds by default, but you can change it through the optional parameter `maxDelay` to the `ProcessPushNotification` method.

The `ProcessPushNotification` method takes in a `PushNotification` object containing information about which change in App Configuration triggered the push notification. It helps ensure all configuration changes up to the triggering event are loaded in the following configuration refresh. The `SetDirty` method does not guarantee the change that triggers the push notification to be loaded in an immediate configuration refresh. If you are using the `SetDirty` method for the push model, we recommend using the `ProcessPushNotification` method instead.

Author: Incorporated changes. Here are my changes to the second block of text:

The short random delay for cache expiration is helpful if you have many instances of your application or microservices connecting to the same App Configuration store with the push model. Without this delay, all instances of your application could send requests to your App Configuration store simultaneously as soon as they receive a change notification. This can cause the App Configuration Service to throttle your store. Cache expiration delay is set to a random number between 0 and a maximum of 30 seconds by default, but you can change the maximum value through the optional parameter `maxDelay` to the `ProcessPushNotification` method.

> [!NOTE]

> > To reduce the number of requests to App Configuration when using push refresh, it is important to call `SetCacheExpiration(TimeSpan cacheExpiration)` with an appropriate value of `cacheExpiration` parameter. This controls the cache expiration time for pull refresh and can be used as a safety net in case there is an issue with the Event subscription or the Service Bus subscription. The recommended value is `TimeSpan.FromDays(30)`.

Reviewer: Can we remove "The recommended value is `TimeSpan.FromDays(30)`."? This can vary a lot depending on user scenarios. I don't think we recommend 30 days.

Reviewer: BTW, can you please update the code `.SetCacheExpiration(TimeSpan.FromDays(30))  // Important: Reduce poll frequency` to 1 day/24 hours. 30-day is a bit extreme.

}
```

> The `ProcessPushNotification` method resets the cache expiration to a short random delay. This causes future calls to `RefreshAsync` or `TryRefreshAsync` to re-validate the cached values against App Configuration and update them as necessary. In this example you register to monitor changes to the key: *TestApp:Settings:Message* with a cache expiration of one day. This means no request to App Configuration will be made before a day has passed since the last check. By calling  `ProcessPushNotification` your application will send requests to App Configuration in the next few seconds. Loading new configuration values shortly after changes occur in App Configuration without constantly polling for updates. In case your application misses the change notification for any reason, it will still check for configuration changes once a day.

Reviewer 2: > Loading new configuration values shortly after changes occur in App Configuration without constantly polling for updates.

This sentence doesnt make sense.

Author: Does this sound better to you?

"Your application will load the new configuration values shortly after changes occur in the App Configuration store without the need to constantly poll for updates."

Reviewer 2: Yes, sounds good.

> [!NOTE]
> To reduce the number of requests to App Configuration when using push refresh, it is important to call `SetCacheExpiration(TimeSpan cacheExpiration)` with an appropriate value of `cacheExpiration` parameter. This controls the cache expiration time for pull refresh and can be used as a safety net in case there is an issue with the Event subscription or the Service Bus subscription. The recommended value is `TimeSpan.FromDays(30)`.

> ## Push Model

Reviewer 2: We can call this section:
`Optional: Incorporate synchronization tokens for real-time consistency`

> [!NOTE]
> The API's used in this example are only available in the provider library version 5.x and later.

> This is an optional section which works with the Push Model. Using a `SyncToken` ensures that users will receive their most up to date configurations. This `SyncToken` is sent to the `Azure App Configuration` SDK which is subsequently passed to `Cosmos DB` to ensure the most recent configurations are returned. This new model prevents replication lag from occurring.

Reviewer 2: We can simplify this section without describing too many implementation details like CosmosDB, or any of the new APIs we added (those are already documented in our API reference docs). Suggested change:

Due to the nature of distributed systems, real-time consistency between requests is difficult to enforce implicitly. We use synchronization tokens to address this issue. The Event Grid event contains the sync-token that can be utilized to guarantee real-time consistency between different client instances and requests. 

To use sync-token in your push refresh workflow, you need to make the following changes to your  **Program.cs** file:

1. Add a dependency on Azure.Messaging.EventGrid Package (add code snippet). 
2. Make changes to the RegisterRefreshEventHandler method (add code snippet).

(After code snippets, add one last paragraph about how ProcessPushNotification calls SetDirty internally)

                .AddAzureAppConfiguration(options =>
                {
                    options.Connect(appConfigurationConnectionString);
                    options.ConfigureRefresh(refresh =>
                        refresh
                            .Register("TestApp:Settings:Message")
                            .SetCacheExpiration(TimeSpan.FromDays(30))  // Important: Reduce poll frequency
                    );
                    _refresher = options.GetRefresher();
                }).Build();
            RegisterRefreshEventHandler();
            var message = configuration["TestApp:Settings:Message"];
            Console.WriteLine($"Initial value: {configuration["TestApp:Settings:Message"]}");
            while (true)
            {
                await _refresher.TryRefreshAsync();
                if (configuration["TestApp:Settings:Message"] != message)
                {
                    Console.WriteLine($"New value: {configuration["TestApp:Settings:Message"]}");
                    message = configuration["TestApp:Settings:Message"];
                }
                await Task.Delay(TimeSpan.FromSeconds(1));
            }
        }

>         private static void RegisterRefreshEventHandler()

Reviewer 2: We dont need the entire code again. We can ask users to add the new package dependency for Azure.Messaging.EventGrid and show the changes in `RegisterRefreshEventHandler` method. Everything else is same as the snippet in the previous section.

> [!NOTE]
> To reduce the number of requests to App Configuration when using push refresh, it is important to call `SetCacheExpiration(TimeSpan cacheExpiration)` with an appropriate value of `cacheExpiration` parameter. This controls the cache expiration time for pull refresh and can be used as a safety net in case there is an issue with the Event subscription or the Service Bus subscription. The recommended value is `TimeSpan.FromDays(30)`.

> ## Optional: Incorporate Synchronization tokens for real-time consistency

Reviewer 2: Nit: for consistency, can you make the 'S' in 'Synchronization' lowercase?

> [!NOTE]

> > Support for using synchronization-tokens in push refresh workflow is available in .NET configuration provider version 5.0.0-preview (or later). 

Reviewer 2: Nit: remove hyphen from `synchronization-tokens` for consistent usage of the term.

        {
            string serviceBusConnectionString = Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable(ServiceBusConnectionStringEnvVarName);
            string serviceBusTopic = Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable(ServiceBusTopicEnvVarName);
            string serviceBusSubscription = Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable(ServiceBusSubscriptionEnvVarName);
            SubscriptionClient serviceBusClient = new SubscriptionClient(serviceBusConnectionString, serviceBusTopic, serviceBusSubscription);
            serviceBusClient.RegisterMessageHandler(
                handler: (message, cancellationToken) =>
                {
                    EventGridEvent eventGridEvent = EventGridEvent.Parse(BinaryData.FromBytes(message.Body));

                    eventGridEvent.TryCreatePushNotification(out PushNotification pushNotification);

                    _refresher.ProcessPushNotification(pushNotification);

                    return Task.CompletedTask;
                },
                exceptionReceivedHandler: (exceptionargs) =>
                {
                    Console.WriteLine($"{exceptionargs.Exception}");
                    return Task.CompletedTask;
                });
        }
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Now that I read it again, I feel like we need a little more explanation before we talk about SetDirty.

How about this:
"The `TryCreatePushNotification` method extracts the synchronization tokens and other relevant information from an `EventGridEvent` object and creates a `PushNotification` object. The `ProcessPushNotification` method then prepares the client to use these synchronization tokens in the next request to App Configuration service, thereby guaranteeing real-time consistency for any subsequent request."

> [!NOTE]
> To reduce the number of requests to App Configuration when using push refresh, it is important to call `SetCacheExpiration(TimeSpan cacheExpiration)` with an appropriate value of `cacheExpiration` parameter. This controls the cache expiration time for pull refresh and can be used as a safety net in case there is an issue with the Event subscription or the Service Bus subscription. The recommended value is `TimeSpan.FromDays(30)`.

> ## Optional: Incorporate synchronization tokens for real-time consistency

Reviewer: With the new API, the `SetDirty` should be replaced. There is no reason for anyone still using the `SetDirty` API. I don't expect this to be an optional choice. We should just update the existing document.

Reviewer 2: I think we should still keep the SetDirty option as the new APIs are only available from 5.x version onwards. If someone is on an older version, they can still implement push refresh without sync tokens.  Maybe we can switch the order? Talk about the sync token APIs first, and then mention SetDirty option in a "Note" for anyone using old provider?

Reviewer: I would agree if the difference between the old and new APIs are just different ways to achieve the same result, but we know the `SetDirty` API could be problematic. Imagine what we will do if a customer comes to us and complains their app didn't pick up a config change after responding to the push notification - we will suggest them to upgrade to 5.x. So let's not put something we don't recommend in the doc. Let's push customers to 5.x.

> [!NOTE]
> Support for using synchronization tokens in push refresh workflow is available in .NET configuration provider version 5.0.0-preview (or later). 

> Due to the nature of distributed systems, real-time consistency between requests is difficult to enforce implicitly. We use synchronization tokens to address this issue. The Event Grid event contains the sync-token that can be utilized to guarantee real-time consistency between different client instances and requests.

Reviewer: Please don't use "real-time consistency" (see my comments below).

We should either explain what a synchronization token is or explain the concept with more natural language.

            string serviceBusConnectionString = Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable(ServiceBusConnectionStringEnvVarName);
            string serviceBusTopic = Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable(ServiceBusTopicEnvVarName);
            string serviceBusSubscription = Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable(ServiceBusSubscriptionEnvVarName);
            SubscriptionClient serviceBusClient = new SubscriptionClient(serviceBusConnectionString, serviceBusTopic, serviceBusSubscription);
            serviceBusClient.RegisterMessageHandler(
                handler: (message, cancellationToken) =>
                {
                    EventGridEvent eventGridEvent = EventGridEvent.Parse(BinaryData.FromBytes(message.Body));

                    eventGridEvent.TryCreatePushNotification(out PushNotification pushNotification);

                    _refresher.ProcessPushNotification(pushNotification);

                    return Task.CompletedTask;
                },
                exceptionReceivedHandler: (exceptionargs) =>
                {
                    Console.WriteLine($"{exceptionargs.Exception}");
                    return Task.CompletedTask;
                });
        }
```

> The `TryCreatePushNotification` method extracts the synchronization tokens and other relevant information from an `EventGridEvent` object and creates a `PushNotification` object. The `ProcessPushNotification` method then prepares the client to use these synchronization tokens in the next request to App Configuration service, thereby guaranteeing real-time consistency for any subsequent request.

Reviewer: The synchronization token is the implementation detail. The document is not to explain how you implemented the API. We should explain what the API can achieve (or how it benefits the customer).

BTW, I'm not sure what we mean by "real-time consistency", and I don't think we offer it. By calling `ProcessPushNotification`, we simply guarantee, in the next configuration refresh, the application will receive all changes at least up to the point when the notification was triggered. No guarantee about the changes that occurred _after_ the push notification was triggered.

> Notice that you do not need to invoke the `SetDirty` method anymore. This is because `SetDirty` is always invoked internally through the `ProcessPushNotification` method. The cached value will be marked as dirty after a random delay of up to 30 seconds. This max delay can be overridden by passing an optional `Timespan` parameter to the `ProcessPushNotification` method.

Reviewer: We shouldn't talk about `SetDirty` anymore.

> [!NOTE]
> To reduce the number of requests to App Configuration when using push refresh, it is important to call `SetCacheExpiration(TimeSpan cacheExpiration)` with an appropriate value of `cacheExpiration` parameter. This controls the cache expiration time for pull refresh and can be used as a safety net in case there is an issue with the Event subscription or the Service Bus subscription. The recommended value is `TimeSpan.FromDays(30)`.

## Optional: Incorporate Synchronization tokens for real-time consistency

> [!NOTE]

> > The API's used in this example are only available in the provider library version 5.x and later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Support for using synchronization-tokens in push refresh workflow is available in .NET configuration provider version 5.0.0-preview (or later). 
```

**PushNotification**
```cs
public class pushNotification() {
    public Uri ResourceUri;
    public string SyncToken;
    public string EventType;
}
```
This class stores the `ResourceUri` of the resource which triggered the `PushNotification`, the `Synchronization Token` to be added to the next request to the App Configuration Service, and the Type of Event which triggered the `PushNotification`.

**TryCreatePushNotification**
```cs
EventGridEvent.TryCreatePushNotification(out PushNotification pushNotification)
```
This method uses the `Data`, `EventType`, and `Subject` stored in the Event Grid Event to try and create a `PushNotification`. If successful returns *true* and an out `PushNotification` parameter. Otherwise the parameter will be null and the method will return *false*.

**ProcessPushNotification**
```cs
ProcessPushNotification(PushNotification pushNotification, TimeSpan? maxDelay)
```
This method is called by the refresher and provider to process the `PushNotification`. `ProcessPushNotification()` will invoke `UpdateSyncToken()` and then invoke `SetDirty()` to ensure the most recent configuration is provided to the user.

> **Implementation**

Reviewer 2: Everything from 185-209 can be removed. We dont need to elaborate on the APIs in this document.

            string serviceBusConnectionString = Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable(ServiceBusConnectionStringEnvVarName);
            string serviceBusTopic = Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable(ServiceBusTopicEnvVarName);
            string serviceBusSubscription = Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable(ServiceBusSubscriptionEnvVarName);
            SubscriptionClient serviceBusClient = new SubscriptionClient(serviceBusConnectionString, serviceBusTopic, serviceBusSubscription);
            serviceBusClient.RegisterMessageHandler(
                handler: (message, cancellationToken) =>
                {
                    EventGridEvent eventGridEvent = EventGridEvent.Parse(BinaryData.FromBytes(message.Body));

                    eventGridEvent.TryCreatePushNotification(out PushNotification pushNotification);

                    _refresher.ProcessPushNotification(pushNotification);

                    return Task.CompletedTask;
                },
                exceptionReceivedHandler: (exceptionargs) =>
                {
                    Console.WriteLine($"{exceptionargs.Exception}");
                    return Task.CompletedTask;
                });
        }
```

> The `SetDirty` method is called in the PushModel. `SetDirty()` is invoked internally in the `ProcessPushNotification` method to cache values for key-values registered for refresh as dirty. This ensures that the next call to `RefreshAsync` or `TryRefreshAsync` re-validates the cached values with App Configuration and updates them if needed.

Reviewer 2: This is already explained in the previous section. Suggest to change it to:

"Notice that you don't need to invoke the `SetDirty` method anymore. This is because `SetDirty` is always invoked by the `ProcessPushNotification` method internally. The cached value will be marked as dirty after a random delay of up to 30 seconds, but this max delay can be overridden by passing an optional `TimeSpan` parameter to the `ProcessPushNotification` method."
